>> Mike North: Hopefully I've convinced
you of the importance of types.
It is of benefit to you to write your
code in a way that is consistent and
aligned with a strongly typed language.
So there are two, there are many
ways to categorize type systems.
I'm just gonna worry about one for now.
One type systems are either nominal or
structural.
Nominally typed or nominal typing means
literally just based on name only.
So if you say, I'm a function and
I take as an argument,
I take like a cart item.
Say we have a representation of an item
that goes into our shopping cart.
So I'm function I take a cart item.
You must give me a cart item, or I'm going
to say there's been a type mismatch.
In structural typing,
we just care about the properties, and
the types of those properties on
an object and when we say like
I take an object of type cart item,
what we're really describing is,
look I have a particular structure of an
object and I can refer to it as cart item.
Like there's a name for this structure but
as long as you match this structure and
you can have extra properties
in there that's fine, or
you could just create a new
object literal and pass it in,
as long as the structure of those
objects align, we're good, we're fine.
So here's, this is typescript here,
just to, but
hopefully it is reasonably
self-explanatory.
If we have a CartItem, we can say we
have an item, that's an object that has
these three properties with those
types and then it has a quantity.
So all we care about is
the structure of an object.
And if the structure is good enough,
right.
If you have this, at least,
we would say, okay, well now.
Like I can say,
you're equivalent to the type that I need.
Right.
You could have extra stuff in there,
maybe if we added like
a serial number to it.
That would be fine because it'll
just kinda be ignored along the way.
So, this is a, this is really one
of the keys that allows us to
use type inference and to not have to
put annotations all over the place,
because as long as you take something
that meets the minimum requirements,
we don't care what it's called.
We just care about the structure and the
benefit here is, if you say I'm a function
and I take an object of this type,
now you can have a higher level of
assurance that what you are given is
gonna have, you know, a quantity on it.
You don't have to do any kind
of defensive programming.
Because you'll get some assurance based
on what can be done with static analysis,
that whatever is calling this
should be passing something in.
Now it's not bulletproof,
you of course can trick it but
like it is better than regular
JavaScript in this respect.